# Lab 2.4: Silly Story Time!

## Silly stories @showdialog

In this lab, you will create a silly story in MakeCode Arcade!

## First draft

First, you need to create a silly story.

Start by writing a story. Nothing very long.
Just two or three sentences for now.

To create a silly version of your story, remove some of the words
and replace them with blanks.
For each blank, decide what prompt you will use.

You could ask for a part of speech (like, "Enter a noun").
Or, you could ask for something a little more specific
(like, "Enter a number between 1 and 10").

It's up to you!

## Ask me anything!

Now, let's collect information from the player.

1.   For each of the blanks in your silly story, create a variable.
Give your variable a good name (like *adjective* or *firstNoun*).
1.   Ask the player to provide a value for each variable.
     -    Use the   
     ``||game:ask for number||``   
     for variables that will hold numbers.
     -    For the rest of the variables, use the   
     ``||game:ask for string||``  
     block instead.

Run your project to make sure that it asks the player for all of the
information that you need for your story.

Check the hint if you need some help.

```blocks
let aNumber = game.askForNumber("Enter a number.")
let aColor = game.askForString("Enter a color.")
```

## Tell me a story!

Now it's time to show your story. We'll start with a simple presentation.

Use a   
``||game:show long text||``   
block with a **join** block
to display your silly story.

Remember that the **join** block is the **Text** drawer in the
**Advanced** section of the toolbox.

Check the hint if you need some help.

```blocks
let aNumber = game.askForNumber("Enter a number.")
let aColor = game.askForString("Enter a color.")
game.showLongText("I am " + aNumber + " years old and my hair color is " + aColor + "!", DialogLayout.Center)
```

## Complete @showdialog

Good work! Now, get creative! Try some of these ideas, or try some of your own!

-    Illustrate your story with a background and sprites.
-    Is there a hero sprite, and if so, will the player be in control of it? Will any sprites move automatically?
-    Expand your story. Perhaps include multiple scenes.
-    Add sound effects to your story.
-    Add background music to your story. Explore the   
     ``||music:play melody||``   
     block and the   
     ``||music:play song||``   
     block, found in the   
     ``||music:Music||``   
     drawer of the toolbox.

Have fun!

```ghost
let aNumber = game.askForNumber("Enter a number.")
let aColor = game.askForString("Enter a color.")
game.splash("I am " + aNumber + " years old and my hair color is " + aColor + "!")
game.showLongText("", DialogLayout.Center)
music.play(music.stringPlayable("- - - - - - - - ", 120), music.PlaybackMode.UntilDone)
music.play(music.createSong(hex`00780004080200`), music.PlaybackMode.UntilDone)
```
