# Lab 2.3: Variables and Math

## Variables and math! @showdialog

Variables are helpful for our programs,
since they let us store information that we need in our program.

Variables become even more powerful when we can combine them!

In this lab, you will discover different ways to use math with variables.

## Ooh! A playground!

First, let's build a playground.

Add blocks to your   
``||loops(noclick):on start||``   
container that:

-    Asks the player for two numbers.
-    Stores those numbers in two different variables.

View the hint to check your code.

```blocks
let number1 = game.askForNumber("First number?")
let number2 = game.askForNumber("Second number?")
```

## Sum? Product? What's the difference?

Now, let's use these two numbers that your project has collected from the player.

Add blocks to your   
``||loops(noclick):on start||``   
container so that your project shows the *sum* of the two numbers.
The block to add two numbers is in the   
``||math:Math||``   
drawer.

Run your project to test that it works. Try different numbers.
View the hint to check your code.

~hint What is a sum?
The sum is the result of two numbers added together. In other words,
use the addition (or "plus") operator.
hint~

```blocks
let number1 = game.askForNumber("First number?")
let number2 = game.askForNumber("Second number?")
game.splash("" + number1 + " + " + number2 + " = " + (number1 + number2))
```

## Complete @showdialog

Good work! Now, learn about some of the blocks in the ``||math:Math||`` drawer!

-    Start with the block that you already have in your project.
Notice that the "plus sign" can be changed to different symbols.
-    For each of these operations, run your project a few times.
     -    Enter some numbers. (Try small ones at first.)
     -    Make a record of each of your trials.
          (In other words, write down the numbers that you enter each time
          you run your program.)
     -    See if you can figure out what each operation does.
-    Once you have explored all of the operators in this first math block,
try some of the remaining blocks in the   
``||math:Math||``   
drawer in the same way.
     -    You may not understand all of the operators that you find. That's OK!
     -    Be sure to write down all of your trials to show the work you have done.

Your instructor may give you a worksheet that you can use to write down
your trials and your explanations. If not, then use any method that you like
to record your trials and your results.

Have fun!

```ghost
let number1 = game.askForNumber("First number?")
let number2 = game.askForNumber("Second number?")
game.splash("" + number1 + " + " + number2 + " = " + (number1 + number2))
let number3 = Math.sqrt(number1)
number3 = 0 % 1
number3 = Math.min(0, number1)
number3 = Math.abs(number1)
number3 = Math.round(number1)
number3 = Math.constrain(0, 0, 0)
number3 = Math.map(0, 0, 1023, 0, 4)
```
